Joins two MAF files that contain a common reference species.

Let A be a MAF file that describes the alignment of the set of all
sequences in A, S(A). 

Let a column be a subset of individual residues in S(A) which all
share a common ancestor.  

Let C(A) be the set of columns in A such that there exists an x in
C(A) for every residue r in S(A). 

For a column x in C(A), let T(x) be an evolutionary tree that relates
the residues in x, such that every node in T(x) has a single
associated residue. Let R(x) be the residue in x associated with the
root node of T(x). 

Let A be a 'tree MAF' if for every column x in C(A), T(x) is encoded
within A. 

Now let A and B be tree MAFs and let x be a column in C(A), y be a
column in C(B), and z be the intersection of x and y. Let ~ be a
'join' relation, such that x ~ y iff  
  (1) R(x) is in y and { R(x) } = z
  OR 
  (2) R(y) is in x and { R(y) } = z.
For x ~ y we call the unique sequence position in z the 'shared'
position. It is easy to check that if x ~ y we can define a unique
'tree join operation' that constructs the tree containing T(x) and
T(y) as subtrees joined at their shared position. Let J[T(x), T(y)] be
a function that produces an evolutionary tree that relates residues in
evolutionary tree T(x) to residues in evolutionary tree T(y) by way of
a common species, iff x ~ y (see figure). Let ~~ be a 'sharing'
relation, such that x ~~ y iff z is non-empty. We say A and B are
'compatible' iff ~~ and the union of ~ and the identity relation (to
make it reflexive) are equivalent, i.e. informally, for every pair of
columns in A X B that share residues, where X is the cross product,
there is a tree join operation.  

Let ~~~ be an equivalence relation defined as the union of the
transitive closure of ~ and the identity relation. mafJoin constructs
a new tree file AB from two compatible tree MAF files A and B such
that C(AB) is the set of columns defined by the equivalence classes of
~~~ and for every z in C(AB), T(z) is defined by a series of tree
joins defined by ~, i.e., for every x in C(A) and for every y in C(B),
if x ~ y, then there exists a T(z) equal to J[T(x), T(y)].  

mafJoin assumes that each member of S(A) and S(B) has a 'species
label' and that for any x ~ y the shared position's species label
equals z, where z is a parameter passed to mafJoin. 

#############################
#  Definitions
#############################
A:
A MAF file describing an alignment between sequences in the set S(A).

S(A): 
The set of sequences in MAF A.

Column:
A subset of S(A) which share a common ancestor.

C(A):
The set of columns in A such that there exists a column in C(A) for
every residue in S(A). 

Residue:
A single position in a sequence.

T(x):
The evolutionary tree that relates residues in column x such that
every node in T(x) has a single associated residue. 

J[T(x), T(y)]:
Let J[T(x), T(y)] be a function that creates an evolutionary tree that
relates residues in evolutionary tree T(x) to residues in evolutionary
tree T(y) by way of a common species, iff x ~ y.

R(x):
The residue in column x associated with the root node of T(x).

Tree MAF:
A MAF file, A, is a "tree MAF" iff it contains T(x) for every column x
in C(A). 

~:
The join relation such that for columns x and y from C(A) and C(B)
respectively, where z is the intersection of x and y, x ~ y iff: 
  (1) R(x) is in y and { R(x) } = z
  OR 
  (2) R(y) is in x and { R(y) } = z.

Shared:
For x ~ y, the unique sequence position in z is the shared position.

~~:
The sharing relation, such that x ~~ y iff z is non-empty.

Compatible:
A and B are compatible iff for all (x,y) in A X B there is a valid
tree join operation. I.e., A and B are compatible iff the sharing
relation and the join relation union the identity are equivalent.

~~~:
An equivalence relation, the union of the transitive closure of ~ and
the identity relation. 

